Our project is to redesign the interface of the Steam software to be more consistent and less confusing to navigate. Steam is a multiplatform video game and software store with community and communication features.

The prototype can be viewed at the following shared link:
https://xd.adobe.com/view/b279ac00-ac96-45a2-9de8-b0445efe8e72-e72a/?fullscreen&hints=off

Or, it can be ran with Adobe XD with the .xd file in this archive.

The first screen you will see is the Store home page. From there you are able to navigate to other parts of the application using the vertical navigation bar on the left, page through featured games and programs for purchase in the center, start a search from the upper right search button or scroll through a textual list of newly released products on the right bar. The navigation bar is present on most pages to allow the user easy access to any of the program’s main pages. Clicking a game on the store page will bring the user to a details page for that game. This page displays art for the game, allows the user to purchase the game, and install the game. Once the game is installed, users can also opt into beta, or unreleased, updates for the game.

Clicking the search link in the upper right at any time will allow the user to search Steam for games, other users, and more. The prototype assumes a typed value of “Destiny 2” for the search prompt. Results will take the user to the relevant detail page. In the prototype, only Destiny 2 is accessible.

The functional links in the navigation bar are: Friends, Inbox, Library and Store (note that a link to the page you are already on will not appear on the navigation bar).

The “friends” page presents quick access to other people that the user has marked as a favorite friend in the center. The right portion of the page contains a scrollable list of all the user’s friends, in alphabetical order, with thumbnails of their avatar images. Profile pages are not yet implemented but would appear if clicking a friend’s name in the “favorites” or “all” lists. At the bottom are the controls to interact with friends. “Add Friend” displays a search prompt for other users. The prototype assumes that the user is searching for “Bob.” “Invite” is not yet functional but will allow users to invite their friends to events or games. “New Message” displays a prompt that allows the user to select a friend to begin a chat with. For testing purposes, only “Bob” is selectable. “Wave” is not yet implemented but will allow a user to send a notification prompt to a friend.

The “inbox” page extends the friends “page” and  also offers a link to draft a new message and the favorite friends list. It also shows a scrollable chat history on the right side and has a link to a more extensive chat history page that is not yet implemented.

The “Library” page allows access to games that the user owns. A list of games that the user has marked as a favorite are presented front and center along with box art. A scrollable alphabetical list of all owned games appears on the right side. Clicking on a game opens a details page with information on the game in the right bar and link to launch it. For testing purposes, “Destiny II” is currently the only actively linked option.

Clicking the search link in the upper right at any time will allow the user to search Steam for games, other users, and more. The prototype assumes a typed value of “Destiny 2” for the search prompt.

Test Script:

Thank you for agreeing to participate in our university study on interfaces. We are UM Flint students studying Human-Computer Interaction. The system we are demoing is the Steam game platform. The Steam platform is a system that can be used to buy, install, launch and communicate about computer games, as well as with other users. We will be asking you to perform several tasks for this demo.

The first task is to use Steam to purchase a game. Please do the following: Launch the Steam application. Open the Steam store. Search the store for the game we have designated for you (Destiny 2). Purchase the game for the demo account.

After purchase follow the instructions provided by Steam and the selected game (Destiny 2) to download and install such game (Destiny 2) to the provided computer.

Next, you are to use Steam to run a computer game. Assume you would like to play a game. To do so, please do the following: Open the game library. Select or search for the game you would like (Destiny 2). Launch the game (Destiny 2) from the game’s page in the steam application. Because we are not testing Destiny 2 itself, please exit the game so we can continue the study.

The following task is to use Steam to add a new friend (Bob) to the user’s friends list. Under the friends tab, click on the “Add a Friend …” button, followed typing Bob in the “Enter your friend’s profile name” search bar. To finish click the “ADD AS FRIEND” button, to the right of Bob, to add Bob as a friend.

The final task is to use Steam to send another user a text message. Open the Friends window. Select a friend (Bob), send the user (Bob) a message, a simple “Hello Bob” will suffice.

Thank you for your participation. Please answer the questionnaire to assist in our research.
